# Tic-Tac-toe
Tic-Tac-Toe is a two-player game, in which the players take turns marking the spaces in a 3x3 grid space. The player who succeeds in placing three noughts (O’s) or crosses(X’s) in either a horizontal, vertical or diagonal row wins the game.

User has to choose either to play first or second. The first player, either a human being or a computer is assigned ‘X’ and the second one ‘O’ as their marks. The players fill the 3x3 grid with O’s and X’s chance by chance and whosoever forms a row or a column or a diagonal with their respective symbol wins.
The approach used in this project is the magic square algorithm in which the sum of every row, column and diagonal is the same and is equal to (n*(n^2+1))/2 where n is the number of cells on each side. Since we have used a 3x3 grid, the magic square number is 15.
Two lists are maintained, one for each player. Each time a player enters a valid position to play his mark, the corresponding magic square number at that place is added into the list. Based on heuristics, the computer initially tries to occupy the central square or one of the corners. Once the number of moves of the human exceeds 2, the computer finds and blocks the square number playing where can lead the human to victory if there is any otherwise it chooses one of the vacant non-corner squares to play its next move. For this, it calculates the sum of all possible pairs of numbers from the human’s list and subtracts these sums from 15. If the difference is a valid and vacant magic square number, the computer plays at that square. Using the same technique the computer finds and plays at the square which leads it to victory. The sum of all possible triplets in each player’s list is calculated. If the sum of any triplet of any player becomes 15, it wins the game otherwise the match is a draw.
